{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg10000\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033\themelang1033\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f35\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f412\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f410\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f411\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f413\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f414\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f415\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f35\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f412\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f410\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f411\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f413\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f414\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f415\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\*\defchp }{\*\defpap \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \slink16 \ssemihidden \styrsid1394872 header;}{\*\cs16 \additive \rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \kerning28 \sbasedon10 \slink15 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid1394872 Header Char;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 \slink18 \ssemihidden \styrsid1394872 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \kerning28 \sbasedon10 \slink17 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid1394872 Footer Char;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1394872\rsid2765411\rsid3371032\rsid6684734\rsid8415546\rsid8680391\rsid10630258}{\mmathPr\mmathFont0\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0\mdispDef0\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mwrapRight0\mintLim0\mnaryLim0}{\info{\author Allen Webb}{\operator Allen Webb}{\creatim\yr2008\mo12\dy13\hr11\min35}{\revtim\yr2008\mo12\dy13\hr12\min7}{\version6}{\edmins24}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2064}{\nofchars11765}{\nofcharsws14448}{\vern32903}{\*\saveprevpict}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1871\margr1871\margt1583\margb1583\gutter0\ltrsect \ftnbj\aenddoc\pgnstart0\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont0\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\rsidroot8415546 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 3f01}\ilfomacatclnup0{\*\docvar {ColorPos}{-1}}{\*\docvar {ColorSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar {StylePos}{-1}}{\*\docvar {StyleSet}{-1}}{\*\ftnsep \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3371032 \chftnsep \par }}{\*\ftnsepc \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3371032 \chftnsepc \par }}{\*\aftnsep \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3371032 \chftnsep \par }}{\*\aftnsepc \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3371032 \chftnsepc \par }}\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0\linex0\footery864\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\headerr \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af35 \ltrch\fcs0 \kerning0\insrsid3371032 \par }}{\footerr \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af35 \ltrch\fcs0 \kerning0\insrsid3371032 \par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 Ashley Wiskowski\par African Literature\par 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\super\insrsid6684734\charrsid6684734 nd}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  Paper\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6684734 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\i\fs24\insrsid6684734\charrsid1394872 Waiting for an Angel}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid6684734\charrsid6684734 : Journalistic Rights in Africa\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6684734 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 I decided to become a journalist during}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3371032  my senior year of high school because }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 I wanted to pursue something that would make me happy, that would complete the person I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3371032  am inside.  I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 f I lived one life, I wanted to know th}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3371032 at what I did fulfilled me.  M}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 y decision to be a journalist came from my love of writing, which I have done ever since I was eight, my inquisitiveness and the fuel that drove inside me to fight those who have been wronged. Nobody educates the public more than journalist because the journalist is out in the field learning material that is presented to the population. The news affects people the most because it lets people know what is going in their world, and I wanted to be able to affect people. \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \tab People always say that journalism is biased, and that the media picks and choose what it presents. Instead of complaining, I decided to become part of that change. I want to help expose what is wrong in order to make it right -- and I know there is a lot of wrong }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 in this world that needs fixing!  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 I know I can\rquote t be a super hero, but maybe someday I could help give a voice to those who have been wronged. Taking this course in African literature has been educational for me, and by reading Helon Habila\rquote s novel }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734\charrsid6684734 Waiting for an Angel}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 , I have realized the power that journalists have and the potential there is to make a difference. If journalists weren\rquote t in a powerful position, then why would politicians fear }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 them}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 ?  As a journalist, I have yet to find myself or where my future could lead, but I see the im}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 pact of what one person}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 . I have the power to educate, I have the power to create awareness, and I have the power to set the steering wheel in drive down the road of change. \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6684734 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 In }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734\charrsid6684734 Waiting for an Angel}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 the author tells a story from the perspective of a journalist\lquote s life, showing the affect of military rule in full force. Set over a decade ago, the book details the government rule that continues to dominate the people. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 Lomba, a journalist from Nigeria is in prison for covering a political demonstration, and he speaks to the Superintendent about his placement.\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid1394872 \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \lquote I read. All. I read your file again. Also. You are a journalist. This is your \tab second year. Here. Awaiting trial. For organizing violence. Demonstration \tab against. Anti-government demonstration against the military legal government.\rquote  \tab He did not thunder as usual.\par \tab \lquote It is not true.\rquote \par \tab \lquote Eh?\rquote  The surprise on his face was comical. \lquote You deny?\rquote \par \tab \lquote I did not organize a demonstration. I went there as a reporter.\rquote \par \tab \lquote Well\u8230\'c9\rquote  He shrugged . \lquote That is not my business. The truth. Will come out at \tab your. Trial.\rquote \par \tab \lquote But when will that be? I have been forgotten. I am not allowed a lawyer, or \tab visitors. I have been awaiting trial for two years now\u8230\'c9\rquote \par \tab \lquote Do you complain? Look. Twenty years I\rquote ve worked in prisons all over this \tab country. Nigeria. North. South. East. West. Twenty years. Don\rquote t be stupid \tab sometimes it is better this way. How. Can you win a case agains}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid1394872 t the \tab government? Wait. Hope.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  (Habila, 25)\par \par Like Lomba, many journalists throughout not only Nigeria, but also Africa have been detained for }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid1394872 simply doing their job}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 . These issues have not walked away and left the world from which it has disrupted, and journalists are still be detained, kidnapped, tortured and killed for the investigations they do. \par \tab Journalists do not hold a high rank in the world, and there are times when media has been forced into a bad light, but with books like Habila\rquote s people can finally see that there are journalists who are sacrificing their lives to educate people who have either been blinded or lied to by government officials. This may not save the lives of the many who will never return home to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid1394872 their families from their field}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 work, but with the education and the understanding of the true sacrifice that journalists have made in countries where there is no Freedom of Speech and there is no law to defend you from the gun or the handcuffs. While journalists in the United States of America are given awards for being too good, journalists in Nigeria, and in other countries are Africa, are put behind bars. \par \tab Journalism has changed a bit since Habila\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid1394872 s story was published in 2000.  O}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 nline journalism has taken over in full force and blogging is now a new key factor in the deliverance of news. And with that, bloggers have now made their names on the threat list to the government. Just recently, in October of 2008, the Nigerian government took it\rquote s second U.S. based Nigerian blogger and held the journalist for questioning. This has been part of detentions where the government is clearing out the foreign-based Nigerian political websites. The order has been carried out after controversial photos of President Umaru Yar\rquote  Adua\rquote s son were published on SaharaReporters, a popular news blog, where the teenage son, Musa, was posed holding an AK-47 assault rifle and holding cash. (CPJ, 1)\par \tab When it comes to journalists, the Nigerian gove}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid1394872 rnment has spared no expense }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 abusing their }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid1394872 own }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 authority and ignoring their laws. For example, Emmanual Emeka Asiwe, editor of the Huhu}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid1394872  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 Online, which is based in Arlington, Massachusetts, was held disallowing him to talk with anyone. Or Jonathon Elendu of ElenduReports (which is a known controversial publication that reports on the corruption among Nigerian politicians), which is based in Lansing, Michigan, was detained for 10 days and released without charge, when Nigerian law allows authorities to only hold people for up to 48 hours without charge.  According to the CPJ research, at least seven journalists this year alone have been detained into SSS custody without charge for days and weeks. (CPJ, 2)\par \tab According CPJ, coverage of sensitive topics, highlighted in recent months, like unrest in the oil-rich southern Niger Delta and Yar\rquote  Adua\rquote s health and family, have frequently produced the outcome of arrests and raids by the State Security Service, which reports directly to the Nigerian presidency. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 Lomba and editor of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid10630258 The Dial, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 James, stare at what was their office left in flames, government officials were destroying offices of the media and arresting their editors for coverage of the government that shined them in a bad light.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \rquote It is Adam, from the office. He says they just got a report that Dele Giwa has \tab been killed by a bomb.\rquote  He turns the car off the road abruptly, veering a bit too \tab far on to the grass verge before coming to a stop.\par \tab \lquote Adam, go on. I am listening\u8230\'c9\rquote \par \tab When he finally puts the phone down, he turns to Lomba. \lquote I don\rquote t believe this.\rquote \par \tab Dele Giwa is --was--the founding editor of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734 Newswatch Magazine}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 , and the \tab loudest voice against continued military rule in the country. He was among \tab James\rquote s few close friends. James is staring through the windscreen at the empty \tab road ahead.\par \tab \lquote A bomb,\rquote  Lomba says, wanting to hear more.\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid10630258 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \lquote A letter bomb. It exploded as he unsealed it.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258  He died at the hospital. Bomb. What a way to go,\rquote  James says.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 But if one had to choose detainment and death, what would be the better choice? Live in insanity, torture, locked away without the freedom of one\rquote s own words, or a quick end with no say?  Nigerian radio journalist Eiphraim Audu was one of the many whose life was taken quickly and questionably by what was reported as six unknown gunmen near his home in Lafia, which is located in central Nigeria. Audu was a senior radio journalist at the Nasarawa State Broadcasting Service and chairman of the credential committee of the approaching Nigeria Union of Journalist elections in Nasarawa. Gunmen shot him after he had left his house to visit his neighbors after coming back from a state function. Although the death seems to be passed off as a random event, no items were stole from him or his car parked nearby. Back in August, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 unidentified gunmen}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  shot Paul Abayomi Ogundeji, a board member of the private daily }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734 ThisDay}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  in Dopemu, a suburb of Lagos, a city in Nigeria. Although Nigerian police claimed he was killed by armed robbers, an eyewitness claims he was killed by police.(CPJ,2)\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \tab Or maybe sometimes the government can be thoughtful, and leave the journalist with a few bumps and bruises. Like the David Amusa, from the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734 National Mirror,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  based in Lagos. Amusa was reporting on council polls results from the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission premises in Port Harcourt on March 31. He present}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 s}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  his identity card and was permitted to enter the office of the secretariat (*recall the peaceful protest that to}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 ok place at the secretariat in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid10630258\charrsid10630258 Waiting for an Angel}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  on page 193). But when Amusa went inside, a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 policeman}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  ordered him to turn back around, claiming him of being disrespectful after Amusa said he should be allowed in the building. About 10 policemen proceeded to kick and Amusa with their guns, while other journalists witnessed the assault. But this is in a long line of journalists who have been invited by the commission to cover council elections in what seems to be a ploy to reduce access to the commission by reporters who might ask questions about election results. (CPJ, 3)}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 \tab Lomba and James watch the destruction that has become government reign, as government in Africa tries to send a message to media: back-off.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 They see the fire from about two blocks away. They smoke rises thickly in a \tab stiff, steady stream, like an obelisk--as if the conveying the essence of a burnt \tab offering to the heavens. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734 The Dial}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  has a whole building to itself; the building was \tab once a house, a duplex, before it was bought and converted into an office. It is in \tab a quiet, residential neighbourhood with trees and hedges by the roadside. Both \tab floors of the duplex are on fire. As James parks on the opposite side of the road, \tab Lomba opens his door and makes to rush across the road to the burning building, \tab where a small crowd has gathered. But James holds him back. \lquote Don\rquote t bother. It \tab is too late. And they could be in the crowd, waiting.\rquote \par \tab \lquote The office is gone!\rquote  Lomba shouts, unable to understand James\rquote s calm \tab indifference. \lquote At least let us get the Fire Brigade. Something could be salvaged.\rquote \par \tab \lquote Lomba, this isn\rquote t an accident. This is arson. Deliberate, official arson.\rquote \tab (Habila, 203)\par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \tab The current issue between the media and the government took place during the media\rquote s role in the 2007 election. The media kept it\rquote s opposing view on what they referred to as a \u8220\'d2poorly organized and massively rigged.\u8221\'d3 During the previous presidency Olusegun Obasanjo\rquote s the SSS found a past time of harassing the news media, in January the SSS agents raided two newspapers that were privately owned and locate in the capital of Abuja due to articles published on the issue of political infighting. One newspaper, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734 Leadership}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  was a major target after a January cover story on that President Obasanjo had pushed out a presidential candidate out of the PDP primaries. The next day, agents raided the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734 Abuja Inquirer}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  where they questioned the paper\rquote s editor and publisher for over 24 hours for questioning due to an article that claimed a military overthrow was possible due to a public disagreement between Obasanjo and his former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, another presidential candidate at the time. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10630258 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 The stories, they began long ago, and they didn\rquote t die with the millennium, with the technology, and the police are not behind the times, even the bloggers themselves are being punished in within the government system. The media cannot defend themselves, not even through publication, as seen in Habila\rquote s novel when the government burned copies of the next publication.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 Nigerians had by now become inured to martial music on the radio announcing \par \tab another coup; the gun-toting soldiers on the streets had become a normal part of \par \tab the landscape. Because we had never really known, appreciably, any other way \par \tab of life, we came to accept our brutalization matter-of-factly. We were ruled by \par \tab decrees and whims, human rights became not rights but privileges to be given \tab or withhe}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 ld by the new ruler in uniform.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  (Habila, 226)\par The passage depicts the state of those in communities, and countries all over in Africa, who had succumbed to what the government has done, because these people have started to feel there is no way to win. To continue on to list all the names of the vict}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 ims of the cause--the deceased,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  the kidnapped, and the detained, would take a long, dismal time. \par \tab To report on these events cannot even due justice to the suffering that journalists go through just to bring truth to the people who are being deceived by the government. Journalists aren\rquote t miracle workers, and they make mistakes, but there is no mistake on accurate reporting regardless who it is offending. Journalist are employed because there are people who do not know what is going on, who sit in their houses raising the questions that others are in some regions in this world, such as Nigeria are risking their life to answer. Journalist}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 s}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  are educators among society, because they go out and do the work, get the answers, here from the experts themselves. While most people in the world, especially in the United States can\rquote t appreciate the work that is done by the media, the people in Africa can. \par \tab Not to say that journalist}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 s}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  are the only victims that sit in front of a gun, sweaty palms, and wondering, what in fact, they did so wrong. But as an educator, as an investigator and a writer all in one, a person with the responsibility or duty to provide their fellow victims of a corrupt government, to fill-in the details that many would never know, there is a death sentence to aspire to be such a position. One can appreciate what it must be like to fall victim when one was only do}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 ing their duty to their country}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 men and woman after reading Habila\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 novel}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 . It provides the reader with the insight of what sanity and the breakdown of a person\rquote s character after filling the position which in Nigeria is like signing the contrac}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid10630258 t which wills one\rquote s live away: t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734 he price of a paycheck now equivalents to one\rquote s life. But if the government wasn\rquote t so corrup}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid2765411 t, and played a fair and just}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid2765411 role}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid6684734  with the people that it serves, what would they have to worry about? }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\fs24\insrsid6684734 Certainly not the media\u8230\'c9}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6684734 \par }{\*\themedata 504b030414000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cb4ec3301045f748fc83e52d4a9cb2400825e982c78ec7a27cc0c8992416c9d8b2a755fbf74cd25442a820166c2cd933f79e3be372bd1f07b5c3989ca74aaff2422b24eb1b475da5df374fd9ad5689811a183c61a50f98f4babebc2837878049899a52a57be670674cb23d8e90721f90a4d2fa3802cb35762680fd800ecd7551dc18eb899138e3c943d7e503b6b01d583deee5f99824e290b4ba3f364eac4a430883b3c092d4eca8f946c916422ecab927f52ea42b89a1cd59c254f919b0e85e6535d135a8de20f20b8c12c3b00c895fcf6720192de6bf3b9e89ecdbd6596cbcdd8eb28e7c365ecc4ec1ff1460f53fe813d3cc7f5b7f020000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4fc7060abb0884a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b63095120f88d94fbc52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462a1a82fe353bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b4b0d592c9c070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b4757e8d3f729e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021009d5c8bbe10070000871d0000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6cec594f6f1b4514bf23f11d467b6f13274e9a4475aad8b109b469a3d82dea71bc3bf64e33bbb39a1927f10db547242444411ca8c48d03022ab51297f269024550a47e05deccecae77e271e39400153487d63bfb7b6fdefbbd3ff367af5e3b4e183a2442529e3682dae5c5009134e4114d878de076af73692d4052e134c28ca7a4118c890cae6dbefbce55bca162921004f2a9dcc08d20562adb585890210c63799967248577032e12ace0510c1722818f406fc2169616175717124cd300a53801b5b706031a12d4d32a83cd42799bc163aaa41e0899e86ad5c49130d8e8a0a611722c5b4ca043cc1a01cc13f1a31e39560162582a78d10816cd5fb0b07975016fe4424ccd90adc875cc5f2e970b44074b664e31ec9793d63af5f52bdba57e03606a1ad76eb75bed5aa9cf00701882a7d696aace7a67add62c745640f6e7b4eed6e2ca62ddc557f42f4fd9bcde6c3657d6735bac5203b23feb53f8b5c5d5fad6928337208b5f99c2d79b5badd6aa8337208b5f9dc277aeacafd65dbc01c58ca60753681dd04e27d75e42069ced78e16b005f5bcce113146443995d7a8a014fd5ac5c4bf03d2e3a00d04086154d911a67648043c8e21666b42fa89e006f105c796387423935a4e742321434538de0830c43454cf4bd7cf6ddcb674fd0c9fda727f77f3c79f0e0e4fe0f569123b583d36155eac5379ffef1e823f4fb93af5f3cfcdc8f9755fc2fdf7ffcf34f9ff981503e13739e7ff1f8d7a78f9f7ff9c96fdf3ef4c0b704ee57e13d9a10896e9223b4cf1370ccb0e25a4efae27c12bd18d3aac4563a9438c57a168ffeb68a1df4cd3166d8836b1297c13b02da870ff8dee89e637037162395c7dbf1ec7a9c38c05dce59930b2f0bd7f55c159a7ba374e89f5c8caab87d8c0f7d73b770eac4b73dcaa06f529fca564c1c33f7184e151e929428a4dff103423c7cdda5d4e1759786824b3e50e82e454d4cbd94f468dfc9a689d00e4d202e639f81106f879bdd3ba8c999cfeb6d72e822a12a30f318df23cca1f13d3c5238f1a9ece1845509bf8155ec33b23b166115d7960a223d248ca37644a4f4c9dc12e06f25e8d7a175f8c3becbc6898b148a1ef874dec09c5791dbfca015e324f361bb348dabd8f7e501a428467b5cf9e0bbdcad10fd0c71c0e9cc70dfa1c409f7d9dde0361d3a264d1244bf19091d4b68d54e074e68faaa769c4037ceddb9b8760c0df0f9578f3c99f5a636e22d20c157093ba7daef2cdce9a6dbe222a26f7ecfddc6a3748f409a4f2f3c6f5beedb961bfce75beeac7a9eb7d14e7a2bb45dbdbdb19b62b3454e66ee900794b1ae1a3372439a4db2847522eac0a09633a743529e98b2187ee67dddc10d0536324870f521557137c6196cb06b81563294b9eaa144199770b033c35edd1a0f9b74658f852bfac060fb81c46a97477678590f17e782528d596d86e6f0594cb4ac15cc3bd9f2955c29b8fd3a93d5b45173cf5633a69956e7cc56ba0c319c760d064b3661038260db022cafc2f95c4f0d0713cc48a479b76b6f11161385bf2744b9d7d6911847c486c819aeb05933b12b52c85c10404a7942773e364bd680b4b38d3069313b7fe624b95030215997dda96a6269b5b6588a8e1ac1facad24a80429c3582011c49e1679241d0a4deb26136847b9d50099bb567d6a229d289c7ebfeacaac12dc38c8271ca3813526d6319db189a5779a858aa67b2f62fadd475b25d8c0336515fc38ae53548917fcd0a08b51b5a3218905055835d19d1dcd9c7bc13f29122a21b4747a8cf46621f43f88153ed4f4425dc2c9882d60f700da6d936afdcde9a779aeae593c1d971ccb218e7dd525fa3141567e1a6de4a1bcc53c53cf0cd6bbb71eefcaee88abf2857aa69fc3f73452f0770d05f8e740442b8851518e97a6d045ca8984317ca621a7604acfba67740b6c0552abc06f2e12ed8fc2fc8a1fedfd69cd561ca1ace6b6a9f0e91a0b09ca85810b2076dc964df19ca6af9d26355b25c91c9a88ab932b366f7c921613ddd0357750f0e500ca96eba49de060cee74feb9cf7905f5877a8f52ad37a787944ba7ad817f7ae3628b199c3ab597d0f95bf05f9ae859fdacbc112fd6c8aa23fac56497542faac259fcd6d7f3a95ed3847916e0ca5a6b3bd694c74b2b857110c5698f61b0dccf64705d83f43fb0fe511132fb61412fa83dbe0fbd15c17702cb1f82acbea4bb1a64906e90f6571ff63d76d026935665a9cd773e9ab562b1bee08d6a39ef29b2b565f3c4fb9c64979b28773aa7162f92ec9c61876b3b36936a88ece91285a141710e3181315fa4aa1f8d78ff1e047a1baee747cc7e4692193c993ac8f684c9ae3e8fc6f94f26ed826bb34e9f613492a5fb648068745c9c3f4a266c09d94f19c516d9a0b5984eb45270d97768700573bc16b5ab6529bc74b67029616686965d0a9b1b329f02f89095376e7db403bc6db2d66b5d5c05532cfd2b94cd61bc9f32efc9675ecaec41f195817a0dcad4f1ab29cb9902f2a6130f3e450a0c4793aee9bfb0e8d84c3729bbf927000000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88d0add40384e4350d363f2451eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567914b284d262452282e3198720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f1f165dfe514173d9850528a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d0014000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c0200001300000000000000000000000000000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b00000000000000000000000000300100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c00000000000000000000000000190200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021009d5c8bbe10070000871d00001600000000000000000000000000d60200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b01000027000000000000000000000000001a0a00007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000150b00000000}{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d61696e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax276\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef1\lsdunhideuseddef1\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority59 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Revision;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;}}{\*\datastore 010001000200000010000000584d4c2e5341585265616465722e3500000000000000000000060000d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff0052000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002000500ffffffffffffffffffffffffec69d9888b8b3d4c859eaf6cd158be0f000000000000000000000000f827e43d455dc901feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000100010000000000}}